In this lesson, we will create and perform the basic configuration of our main project.
In the epic game launcher, go to the unreal engine
category , to the library subcategory and launch the latest
version of the engine. The project creation assistant has opened. As we remember, the first screen contains the categories of
projects. We choose the games category. The second screen contains templates. We create our project
using blank template blank. On the latter, we will not change any settings at all, we will even
leave the blueprint project type. Let's see how to create a c ++ project based on the blueprint of a project.
Below, in the first field, indicate the directory where we want to create a project, and in the second, enter the
name of the project. Let's call it ShootThemUp and finish creating the project by clicking the create project button.
The first thing we will do is add copyrights.
Main menu, edit, project settings. In the description category, we find copyright notice. And we write:
shoothem up game.
This description will be at the top of each of our code files. Close project settings.
Create a new Levels folder in the Content Browser.
Click the Save current button and save the current map.
Let's call it TestLevel. We save in this
directory. Open the project settings and point this card to the start of the editor.
To do this, in the maps and modes category, select the editor
startup map. We specify TestLevel. In GameDefaultMap we
also select this map. The GameDefaultMap specifies the map that will open in
standalone mode. This can be the launch of an already assembled version of the game or launch in a special
mode without an editor. So, the first part is ready. Let's add the content we need.
To do this, open the epic launcher again.
Go to the learn subcategory, go down to the very bottom and find the shooter game project.
Download and create a shooter game project. I already have it installed.
When all this is done, open the directory with the project and launch it - shooter game.
We will use this project from the point of view of
content - take all the assets from it and create our game based on them.
Take the character from here, his animations, sounds, weapons, and so on. We think that we have a certain in- house
designer who provides us with all the assets for the game, and we program them with you.
In general, you do not need to download this project - all assets will be added to our repository.
They will also be cleaned up, there will be no custom settings, we will create everything from scratch.
The Unreal engine encourages the use of their assets in your personal projects as
long as you use the Unreal Engine for these purposes. From a licensing point of view, this is absolutely
legal and free, but if you make money from your game, then you
will have to pay a small percentage from a certain income . To transfer content from one project to another, you need to select
the assets of interest to us, right-click and select asset action, migrate.
A content migration helper appears. Uncheck the
sounds folder. We don't need sounds yet.
We have chosen animations, but animations also consist of meshes, materials, so the unreal engine
itself links all the files that need to be transferred and automatically
adds our character, materials, textures. Therefore, we press the ok button.
Find the directory with
our ShootThemUp project. We need to select the content folder and click select folder.
A message appears that the content was successfully migrated. We no longer need
this project in the current section . We have transferred all the content that we need.
We close it. We return to our project and see
that additional
folders with content from the shooter game have appeared in the content browser . If we click on the animations, then everything has been successfully
symported. We will use these materials.
Let's create the ExternalContent
folder
And transfer all the shooter game content to this folder, so that in the future we won't get confused about
where our content is, and where is the external, design one.
Mark this folder with a different color. To do this, select set color with the right mouse button.
Let's put it in red.
Let's make a code project from a blueprint project. To do this, it is enough to add a
C ++ class to our project. Unreal will do everything for us automatically.
Go to menu, file, new c ++ class and start with the main class of our GameModeBase level.
Click on the next button. Let's call it an abbreviation of the name of our
STUGameModeBase. Click the public button
to place the header files in the public folder,
and C ++ files in the private folder and click create class.
So, our game mode is created. We see
our copyrights at the top of the .cpp file and at the top of the .h file.
We return to the editor and let's immediately set this game mode in the world settigns settings.
Our game mode is also available in the c ++ classes folder.
If you do not see this folder, then check the box in the view options. We are saved.